# rule-engine


**Rules to classify topics :** A popular and quick to mine the topics is to write rules and classify the sentences. This is a commonly used method and followed when a machine learning could not be trained. Rules are of the form like if a sentence contains word1 and word2 then it could belong to a topic. There could be different types of rules - And, Not, And with 3 words etc. All the set of rules are joined by an or condition. Tools like QDA miner, Clarabridge, SPSS can be used to write and execute powerful rules. Rules can also contain grammatical constructs of a sentence like “Nouns”, “Adverbs” etc. In the below example we write our own text mining rule engine using Python. The rules file contains 2 sets of rules. One with single word being present. If it is present sentence gets assigned to that category. For example the word “baggage” is present it gets assigned to the category. The other type of rule is an “And” of 2 words separated by a window. For example the rule - “check” and “in” separated (window) by less than 2 words would be able to capture a sentence like “check me in”. The column “window” in the rules file with values -1 means window is not applicable. Also note that a “hit” with any rule is sufficient for a sentence to get mapped. From that perspective all the rules are “Or”ed with each other

**How to play with the codes:** We have given 2 sets of files - one is the data file ("airline_dataset.csv") and another ("rules_airline.csv"). The rules file contains the rule to identify the topics in the data file. For simplicity purposes, the data file is labelled with topics manually so that you can compare your accuracies. Download the data set and rules file to see if you are able to extract topics from documents


These codes, approach and data is from my book "Practical Natural Language Processing with Python" from Apress publications (https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-4842-6246-7, https://www.amazon.in/Practical-Natural-Language-Processing-Python/dp/148426245X)
